At Posit, we want to be the open source data science company.
As a public benefit corporation, we do more than just sell software our users love.
We aim to make software for data science and scientific and technical computing
available to everyone, regardless of their ability to pay.
We believe that the best way to create data science and scientific discoveries
that are reliable and reproducible is through code.
So our focus is helping people who write code generate value in their organizations more
efficiently.
We take a holistic approach to this goal, innovating on free and open source software,
making it easier for individual data professionals to create value in R
and the Python programming languages.
At the same time, we want our professional tools to be the standard for writing and sharing
open source data science.
We are relentlessly focused on creating the best ways for people to create,
deploy, and use core open source data science capabilities at scale.
As you'll see in the rest of this demo, that means creating the best environment
for people to develop and share content in R and Python.
We believe that means not trying to reinvent the wheel,
but instead to build first class business and technical integrations to BI tools,
MLOps frameworks, generative AI, data stores, and more.
To get started, let's first introduce you to Posit Team.
Posit Team is a bundled offering of our three professional tools,
Posit Workbench, Posit Connect, and Posit Package Manager.
Starting at the top, we have your data scientists and analysts.
These are the folks writing code and creating insights using Posit Workbench.
And they can use whatever language they want, including R and Python,
and develop in any environment of their choosing, including the RStudio IDE,
JupyterLab, Jupyter Notebooks, as well as Visual Studio Code.
For your R developers, they may be creating insights like Shiny applications,
pins, R Markdown, or Korto documents, APIs using the Plumber package,
or deploying and monitoring models using Vetiver.
And for your Python developers, they have a home to create interactive web applications
using Streamlet, Dash, Bokeh, and Shiny.
They can also create documents using Jupyter Notebooks or Korto,
and APIs using Flask and FastAPI.
You'll also notice that many of our tools we create here at Posit,
including Korto, Shiny, Pins, and Vetiver,
are available to both your R and Python developers.
Now, once the developers create content,
they need a way to share it with the people that need to see it,
including decision makers, co-workers, clients,
or maybe even just friends and family.
That's the role of Posit Connect,
which is our professional publishing platform.
Not only does Connect make it easy to share content,
but also control access and performance scaling.
These settings are usually in the purview of IT,
but Connect puts these controls in the hands of your data scientists.
And finally, we have Posit Package Manager,
which helps centralize and organize the great open-source R and Python packages
your team uses for data science, machine learning, and more.
You can also host internally developed R and Python packages
and restrict access to specific packages
based on various user-defined criteria,
including the presence of known vulnerabilities.
In our eyes, an open-source platform without real package management
is not an open-source platform.
So to start our demo, let's introduce you to Posit Workbench.
After logging into Posit Workbench
using your team's preferred authentication method,
we land on the Posit Workbench homepage.
On the left-hand side, I'll click the New Session button,
which brings us to a new window
where I can choose my development environment.
Currently, Posit Workbench supports JupyterLab and JupyterNotebooks,
RStudio, and Visual Studio Code.
Depending on your configuration,
you can deploy a session on the local Linux machine running Workbench,
or if you're working in an HPC environment,
developers have the flexibility to choose the compute workbench
and the image they would like to deploy their session within.
Let's go ahead and open a new RStudio session.
Once inside the RStudio IDE,
developers can start coding immediately.
Users can easily make connections to external data sources
using a variety of methods,
including our provided professional ODBC drivers
to many of the most common databases in the world.
to many of the most common databases available today,
including Postgres, Snowflake, Redshift, BigQuery, and even Databricks.
We also added seamless authentication pass-through
from Posit Workbench to Databricks
so that users can easily start, stop, connect,
and view details of accessible Databricks clusters.
Users can also easily access their Unity catalog data and models
without ever leaving the RStudio IDE.
In this workflow video,
a user is leveraging the R package known as sparklyr
to access some UFO data stored on Databricks
within Posit Workbench.
Alternatively, the user could access the data
using the provided ODBC driver.
The quarto document you see in the top left quadrant
makes use of the Databricks connection
to extract, process, and visualize the UFO data.
Users can also leverage the power of generative AI
to assist with their development,
including the built-in support for GitHub Copilot
within the RStudio IDE on Posit Workbench.
In this workflow, a user is creating a model
using a suite of packages called tidymodels,
which we've developed here at Posit.
As the user writes code,
GitHub Copilot takes in cues from the code and comments
to provide autocomplete-style suggestions to the developer.
Additionally, developers can directly access
chat-style large language models,
such as chat-gpt, directly in RStudio
to create the general structure of a modeling pipeline
all in one go.
These generative AI capabilities in Posit Workbench
are also customizable and extensible,
and users can easily write their own add-ons
that use self-hosted models.
Once your users have accessed their data,
they can begin creating valuable insights
to help drive your business forward.
These insights can take many shapes,
from static reports to interactive web applications.
What you're seeing here in the top-left quadrant
is something known as a Shiny application.
Shiny is an open-source package we developed here at Posit
that allows anyone to create interactive web applications
using only R or Python code.
This application was written in R
and makes use of the tidymodels packages
we discussed before to create different predictive models.
We can run this application locally
within Posit Workbench to see the final product.
On the left-hand side, we have a drop-down menu
to select various model types.
After selecting a model,
the application executes the modeling process
in the background and makes predictions
using a simple dataset containing car data.
Here, we are assessing the accuracy of our models
by looking at the predicted miles per gallon
for various cars on the y-axis
versus actual miles per gallon on the y-axis.
While this example application may seem straightforward,
it can provide valuable information
about the performance of different models.
These insights can be of immense value to your team,
but only if they are shared
with the relevant decision-makers.
So how, then, do we share this application with others?
That's where Posit Connect comes into play.
There are a variety of methods
to publish content to Posit Connect,
some of which are as simple as clicking a button.
At the top of the RStudio IDE
is a button that will kick off the publishing process.
In the subsequent pop-up menu,
we first define which files we need to send to Posit Connect.
In this example, it's only our shiny app.r file.
Next, we define the Connect instance
we would like to publish to.
And finally, we can give our application a name.
I'll leave it as Modeling App,
and then we click Publish.
Without Posit Team,
if a user wanted to share this application with others,
the recipients of the app
would be required to have R installed,
along with all the necessary R packages
and the correct versions of those packages.
With Posit Connect,
the dependency capturing and environment replication
is done automatically.
This ensures that the content,
once hosted on Posit Connect,
runs as intended.
And here we have the modeling application
we developed within Posit Workbench,
now hosted on Posit Connect.
As the owner of this content on Posit Connect,
I have full control over who has access
and how the application behaves.
These settings are accessed
by clicking the gear icon in the top right corner.
In the Access section,
the first thing you'll notice are the sharing options.
If you need to ensure that your content remains secure
and is only accessible to specific individuals or groups,
you can choose the bottom option
and then specify the particular users or groups
in the text box below.
Similarly, if you want to ensure content
is only accessible to individuals
with authenticated access to Posit Connect,
we can select the middle option.
Finally, to open the content to the public,
we can select the top option.
Now, the only thing I need
to share this content with others
is the content URL at the bottom,
which can be customized in the text box above.
Once a viewer clicks the URL,
they can treat the Shiny application
just like any other website
and won't need to know anything about R or Shiny.
Again, the primary goal of Posit Connect
is to make sharing content
as easy as possible with anyone.
Now, not all content hosted on Posit Connect is the same,
and in some cases,
content may only be viewed by a handful of people,
and in other cases,
it may be viewed by thousands,
potentially all at once.
To help tune and scale your applications and APIs,
publishers and administrators
have access to runtime settings.
These settings can be easily modified
to ensure a good user experience.
The scheduling option only applies to static content,
things like R Markdown,
Jupyter Notebooks,
and Quarto documents.
We'll discuss these settings later on in the demo.
Next, we come to the tag setting,
which allows teams to establish
their own organizational structure
for content hosted on Posit Connect.
Finally, we have the var setting,
which provides developers with the capability
to securely incorporate secrets
such as passwords, keys, and tokens
as environment variables,
thereby avoiding the need
to embed these sensitive details
directly within the code.
So far, we've used the R programming language
and various open source tools and packages
to create and interact with machine learning models.
We are going to switch gears
and now use Python within Posit Team
to monitor the performance of a model.
At Posit, we've developed an open source package
named Vetiver,
available in both R and Python.
This package aids in the deployment,
versioning, and monitoring
of machine learning models,
a field commonly known
as machine learning operations,
or MLOps.
Let's use Vetiver to monitor
the performance of a model
using Python within VS Code
running on Posit Workbench.
To get started,
let's open a new session of VS Code.
A major benefit of Posit Workbench
is you can have multiple sessions
of various IDEs running at the same time.
Within this session of VS Code,
I'll first open a Quarto document
which contains our Vetiver workflow.
Quarto is a Posit-created open source tool
for scientific and technical publishing.
This Quarto document was written using Python,
but Quarto also supports
other popular data science languages,
including R, Julia, and Observable.
In the Python code,
we are creating a model
and then measuring the performance of the model
as new data is captured.
Let's preview the Quarto document
and view the performance metrics.
We'll get a live preview window
that shows the rendered Quarto document
in HTML format,
thanks to the Quarto VS Code extension.
It's also worth noting
that we could view this live preview
using the Posit Workbench VS Code extension
that provides secure proxying
to the local development environment.
This is great for viewing documents
or testing interactive applications.
Here we have three plots
that show three commonly collected metrics
for model performance,
mean absolute error,
mean squared error,
and the r-squared value.
These valuable metrics,
just like our Shiny application,
will likely need to be shared with others.
So let's publish the Quarto document
to Posit Connect.
In this example,
we are going to use
the rsconnect command line interface tool
to assist with the dependency capturing
and publishing to Posit Connect.
In the terminal,
at the bottom of the screen,
I'll type out the following command,
rsconnect deploy Quarto.
And then provide the name
of our Quarto document,
which is mlops.qmd.
I'll hit enter,
and then rsconnect will take care of the rest.
Just like our Shiny application,
my development environment,
including my Python version,
packages, and package versions,
is captured and sent to Connect.
Once Connect replicates my environment,
it will then deploy the Quarto document.
And here it is,
now hosted on Posit Connect.
Just like our Shiny application,
I have access to the same content settings
for our Quarto document,
including the sharing settings
that we discussed earlier
for managing access to content.
However, for reports like Quarto,
R Markdown, and Jupyter Notebooks,
the source code can be re-executed
on a schedule of your choosing.
This is great for automating repetitive tasks
or streamlining data science workflows.
Since our machine learning model
performance metrics are calculated weekly,
let's have this Quarto document
automatically run every Monday.
I'll first select the schedule tab,
and then I have the option
to choose my time zone.
Next, I'll select the frequency,
which I'll change to weekly,
and have it run every Monday.
Finally, I have two options at the bottom.
The first option asks to publish the output
after it's generated.
Since the plots will change
every time you run this document,
I'll make sure to keep this selected
so that Quarto content on Connect
is always up to date
with the latest metrics.
For the second option,
Posit Connect can be set up
with an email client
that enables you to send emails
to users containing a direct link
to this content whenever it runs.
In the case of Quarto and R Markdown,
you also have the option
to include plots and tables
directly within the email,
offering an additional valuable way
to share data insights.
Open source data science
without proper package management
can result in a painful coding experience
and non-reproducible workflows.
That's precisely why we created
Posit Package Manager,
which is designed to ensure
that your open source
data science workflows
function seamlessly and reliably.
In fact, all the machine learning analyses
we've done so far in this demo
were using open source packages
installed from Posit Package Manager.
Let's start with a quick overview
of Posit Package Manager,
and we'll discuss many of its amazing features
along the way.
Once your administrator
installs Package Manager,
users can access the homepage,
where they are immediately greeted
with options to select various packages
from repositories
that your team can customize.
This instance of Package Manager
has 11 repositories
and is serving over 26,000 packages
from CRAN,
which is the primary repository
for our developers,
as well as over half a million
PyPI packages,
which is the primary repository
for Python developers.
Let's take a look
at the various repositories
in this instance of Package Manager.
Here I have five R repositories,
including a mirror of CRAN,
and five Python repositories,
including a mirror of PyPI.
I can also serve packages
from Bioconductor,
which is a popular repository
for bioinformatic analyses.
And you'll also notice
an internal repository
for both R and Python.
These are repositories that serve
internally developed R
and Python packages,
making it easier to collaborate
and share code with colleagues.
Some of the other repositories
configured in this environment
include subsets of both CRAN and PyPI,
blended repositories,
which allow you to combine
both internally developed packages
with subsets of either CRAN or PyPI.
And finally, you'll notice
a block repository
for both R and Python.
This is an added security feature
of Posit Package Manager,
which allows you to block
high-risk and unwanted packages
based on various criteria,
including specific licenses
or known vulnerabilities.
Let's select CRAN
and discuss how users
would go about installing packages
from this repository.
Clicking the Setup button
will take me to a new page
where Package Manager
will prompt me with questions
regarding my environment.
The first question has me select
my operating system.
If you're using Posit Workbench,
then you would select Linux
and then choose the Linux
distribution below.
Another feature of Posit Package Manager
is that it can serve
R and Python packages
as pre-compiled Linux binaries,
which can dramatically increase
the package installation speed
for your users.
The next question asks
if I want to freeze package versions
to enhance reproducibility.
Open-source packages
tend to evolve quickly,
which is great
for cutting-edge data science.
However, there may be instances
where new package versions
are not compatible
with other packages
or code your team
has previously developed.
To prevent these conflicts,
Posit Package Manager
allows you to freeze a repository
to a specific date
using the calendar below.
Which helps lock package versions
in place and prevent
any potential conflicts.
Finally, after choosing
my development environment,
I'm presented with
a customized repository URL.
Reading through the URL,
you can see I'm using
the eval instance of
Posit Package Manager,
the CRAN repository,
and I will install Linux binaries
that are frozen to a specific date.
In this example,
that date is January 26, 2024.
Below the repository URL
are the setup instructions
to help users and administrators
configure this repository
in the development environment
I selected above.
For our previous
machine learning operations analysis,
we used vetiver,
which is an open-source package
in both Python and R.
Let's take a look
at the vetiver R package
within this repository.
Once the repository URL
has been configured
in the developer's environment,
all they need to do
is run the install.packages function
to install vetiver.
Below, you can get
some more information about vetiver,
including the most recent version
and any known security vulnerabilities.
The vulnerabilities are reported
based on a database
of known open-source vulnerabilities
called the OSV project.
vetiver does not have
any known vulnerabilities,
but if I navigate
to another R package
called commonmark,
you can see what
known vulnerabilities exist.
Administrators can also block packages
with known vulnerabilities,
which prevents users
from installing them
into their local
development environment.
In summary, Posit's tools excel
in leveraging code
to produce highly
customized analyses
and visually engaging data insights
like interactive reports
and applications.
This customization is what
truly sets Posit apart
from other analytic
and BI platforms.
Moreover, Posit Teams
significantly contributes
to enhanced data
and software governance,
making it a valuable asset
for your team's data-driven endeavors.